When you look at the words in the way that the Apostle Paul worded things
He said I live by the faith in the Son of God who loved me and handed himself over for me
And we can really see the very personal nature of the ransom to the Apostle Paul
And it's important for us to do as our commenters pointed out nicely
It is important for us to personalize the ransom the Apostle Paul and Hebrews chapter 6 and verse 5
I showed the very personal nature
He understood the personal nature of the Bible and the ransom
In Hebrews chapter 6 and verse 5 he uses this expression
And who have tasted the fine word of God and powers of the coming system of things
It's interesting. He used the word taste. Taste is something very personal. Somebody can't taste something for you
You have to put it in your mouth in order to really know what it's going to taste like
So too with the ransom and what practical ways can we taste or personalize the ransom for us
Let's just consider a couple this morning
One is personal fears
Does God really love me?
Am I worthy of love?
Sometimes the what ifs and their cousins the could be is they come to live and never leave
You know bad things or trials or difficulties happen to us
We begin to reason well. Jehovah God maybe doesn't love me
There's a really strong reason for us to somehow believe in cause and effect
We see the cause of things and effect and so after a while
Everything that happens to us we begin to look at some cause and even begin to think that maybe Jehovah doesn't
Allah's love us
You can even if we're a good person and bad things happen to us. We begin to wonder
Others my age are healthy
Some leaving or changing assignments you hear everything falls into place for them within a few weeks
I'm still looking for a job. I'm still looking for work
Another is not try to reason that just because things don't work out perfectly that Jehovah doesn't love us
It's not true
We can still be doing very very good things and yet some difficulties can face us
For example, you're driving down the road of being all the traffic laws you pull up to
Red light you stop turns green you go through it and you get broadsided by some
Knucklehead who went through the red light on the other side
Well, that's not your fault
Are you going to say well? I you know what? I'm not going to be traffic laws anymore. See it doesn't pay
Well, no it was it was his fault for running through the traffic lights and sometimes
Bad or difficult things can happen to us. It's not our fault or it's not any sign that Jehovah doesn't love us
So how can reflecting on the ransom help us when we have these kinds of personal fears?
Well, we could start with why do we have the ransom?
Well because some very good bad things were happening to some good people us
Adam and Eve descendant
I mean Adam's in and Eve's in
Yet we suffer
The ransom is Jehovah's solution for those who appreciate it
It's his way of telling us I know bad things are happening and I'm working to fix it
Yes, when we reflect on the reason why Jehovah God gave us the ransom
It helps us to know that Jehovah knows we suffer from cancer and old age and the sins and mistakes of others and even our own imperfections
See tasting of the ransom in this way means
Will not get the feeling that Jehovah doesn't love us when trials befall us to the contrary
The ransom is the greatest expression of Jehovah and Jesus love for us
And their desire to fix the current mess we live in now
How about let's consider a second way that we could reflect on the ransom and that is the death of someone close to us
Anyone who's had someone very close to them die knows the very helpless feeling that you have knowing that there's really nothing you can do
In that instant when they die your hope your faith in the resurrection
based on the ransom
Become more real to you than anytime in your entire life
In Acts chapter 17 and verse 31
In a beautiful speech that the Apostle Paul gave
He highlights that Jesus
Death and resurrection and the ransom was really a guarantee that we have
Here in Acts chapter 17 and verse 31
He says because he has set a day on which he purposes to judge the inhabited earth in righteousness
by a man whom he has appointed
And he's provided a guarantee to all men
by resurrecting him
from the dead
So personalizing the ransom all that it makes possible
Helps us to know that the resurrection is just not possible
But that Jehovah and Jesus want to resurrect our mother our father
Our beloved husband or a wife
They care about each person that has ever lived or died
Know them so intimately and so completely that they can resurrect them completely with all their memories and personality
Completely as we knew them
I mean how much more personal could God's love for us become than that
You know to bring our loved ones back from the dead
Is the ultimate statement of Jehovah's personal
Interest in each and every human being
We are not just collateral damage in Satan's war on Jehovah
The ransom is the way that Jehovah plans to undo all the harm that Satan has caused since the death of Adam and Eve
In fact the resurrection is really Jehovah's wave
Proving all of Satan's lies completely a false
When you think about it today Satan can portray all kinds of lies about what happens to people after they die
They're going to go here. They're going to go there. They're going to go to some afterlife
They're going to go to some paradise. They're going to be come back as some animal
But in the new world
When the vast majority of people being resurrected are I've been resurrected
That lie isn't going to be sold anymore
Each one can tell everyone what happened to them when they died
Nothing
No afterlife
Everyone will know that it's non-existence
That lie won't work
See Jehovah knew
That we would hurt terribly at the death of loved ones
So he gave us the ransom
As his way of telling us I know it hurts
But please know that I have the perfect solution in mind
Now we've just considered two ways to reflect and meditate on the ransom like the apostle ball did to really personalize it
we just talked about personal fears and
The resurrection the death of someone close to us
Imagine how many more ways we can benefit
Today from meditating on the ransom and how it affects us
personally